Although far more common in women,
breast cancer can also develop in men.
Before puberty, the breast tissue
in boys and girls is similar.
In girls, female hormones produced
at puberty cause the growth of
milk-producing glands called lobules
and tiny tubes called ducts,
which carry milk from the lobules to the nipple
and an increase in fat and
connective tissue called stroma.
Male hormones restrict further growth
of the breasts after puberty;
the tissue contains ducts
but few or no lobules.
The duct cells in a man can undergo
cancerous changes,
but breast cancer is less common
because these cells are less developed.
Also, the male breast tissue is not
exposed to the female hormone estrogen,
as women’s breast tissue is.
Factors that increase the risk of
breast cancer in men include increased age,
exposure to estrogen,
and very low levels of the
male hormone, testosterone.